So, congratulations,
you are about to attempt an AWS certification,
but there is so much more on your journey.
So AWS is made of foundational certifications,
associate level certifications,
professional level certifications,
as well as specialty level certifications.
And based on the type of role you want to have,
they recommend different paths.
So all these paths can be found in a document on the URL
that have linked below in the bottom-right corner.
So we have the architecture path.
So if you wanna become a solutions architect,
for example, to design, develop,
and manage cloud infrastructure and assets,
you need to do these certifications.
So if you already know about the cloud and in IT,
no need to do Cloud Practitioner,
but I still think it's a good one.
And then if you want to leverage AI, they recommend
the AI Practitioner Foundational Certification.
Then you move on to Solution Architecture Associate,
Solutions Architect Professional.
And if you want to dive deep,
the Security Specialty would be really recommended.
If you're more into application architecture,
so this is around the user interface, the middleware,
the infrastructure, and so on,
then they recommend to have the same as before,
but you add the Developer Associates
and then you go into DevOps Engineer Professional.
And then if you wanted to dive deep,
the Solutions Architect Professional certification.
So if you're into operations,
you can be a systems administrator
and your role is to install, upgrade,
and maintain computer components and software
and to integrate automation processes.
In which case, Cloud Practitioner
followed by SysOps Administrator Associate is a good one.
And to do a deeper dive, DevOps Engineer Professional.
If you're a cloud engineer and your role is to implement
and operate an organization network computing infrastructure
and implement security systems to maintain data safety,
then you have Cloud Practitioner Foundational,
SysOps Administrator Associate, Security Specialty,
and for a deep dive, DevOps Engineer Professional
and Advanced Networking Specialty.
If you're into DevOps,
for example, you can be a test engineer,
your role is to embed testing and quality best practices
for software development from design to release
throughout the product lifecycle.
In which case, we have Cloud Practitioner, then Developer,
and then DevOps Engineer.
If you're a cloud DevOps engineer,
then your role is to design, deploy,
and operate large-scale global hybrid
cloud computing environments
and to advocate for end-to-end automated CI/CD pipelines.
So in that case, you would go
from Cloud Practitioner Foundational to Developer Associate
and then optionally, do SysOps Administrator.
And then if you are into machine learning,
then doing the Machine Learning Engineer Associate
could be a very good one.
And finally, for a deep dive,
the DevOps Engineer Professional Certification.
If you're a DevSecOps engineer,
so your role is to accelerate enterprise cloud adoption
while enabling rapid
and stable delivery capabilities using CI/CD principles,
methodology, and technology.
Then it is recommended for you to start
with Cloud Practitioner,
then SysOps Administrator Associates,
Machine Learning Associate
if you are working with AI and ML projects,
DevOps engineer, and finally, Security Specialty.
If you are into the security space,
you can be a cloud security engineer
and your role is to design computer security architecture
and develop detailed cyber security designs.
Then you develop, execute a new track performance
of your security systems to protect information.
So Cloud Practitioner Foundational
is a good one to start with.
If you're working with AI and ML systems,
AI Practitioner Foundational is also a very good one.
Then we have SysOps Administrator,
and finally, Security Specialty.
And for a deeper dive, DevOps Engineer Professional
and Advanced Networking Specialty is a good idea as well.
If you're a cloud security architect,
then your role is to design
and implement enterprise cloud solutions,
applying governance to identify, communicate,
and minimize business and technical risks.
In that case, you have Cloud Practitioner,
then AI Practitioner Foundational,
then Solution Architect Associate,
and then Security Specialty.
And you can do a deeper dive
on Solution Architect Professional.
If you're into development and networking.
So for development, you go
and you as a software development engineer,
you develop and you will maintain software
across platforms and devices,
so Cloud Practitioner, AI Practitioner Foundational,
Developer Associate and then DevOps Engineer.
And if you're just into networking,
then as a network engineer,
you need to design your LANs and your WANs,
so you have the Cloud Practitioner Foundational,
Solutions Architect Associate,
Advanced Networking Specialty,
and for a deeper dive, Security Specialty.
If you are in the data analytics space,
you can be a cloud data engineer
to do the automation of collection
and processing of structure or semi-structured data,
and you can monitor the data pipeline performance,
in which case, Cloud Practitioner,
then Solutions Architect Associate,
then Data Engineer is your way to go.
And for a deeper dive, you can do Security Specialty.
And if you're working on AI and ML project,
Machine Learning Engineer Associates.
If you are in AI or in machine learning,
you can be a machine learning engineer
and your role is to research, build,
and design artificial intelligence systems
that will automate predictive models
and design machine learning systems, models, and schemes.
So here, you can do Cloud Practitioner
and then AI Practitioner Foundational, Solution Associate,
and then Machine Learning Engineer Associate.
And then for deeper dive,
Data Engineer Associate and Machine Learning Specialty.
Then if you're a prompt engineer,
your goal is to design, test, and refine text prompts
to optimize the performance of an AI language model.
So here, we're talking about Cloud Practitioner
and very important AI Practitioner Foundational.
Then we have Machine Learning Engineer Associate.
And then finally,
Machine Learning Specialty for a deep dive.
If you're a machine learning ops engineer,
you're more on the operation side,
so this is where you maintain
the platform and infrastructure.
So you're going to be around Cloud Practitioner,
AI Practitioner of course,
and then Solutions Architect Associate
and Machine Learning Associate,
and for a deeper dive, Data Engineer and DevOps Engineer.
And if you are a data scientist, your role is to develop
and maintain AI and machine learning models
to solve business problems.
And you train and fine tune these models
to evaluate their performance.
And so therefore,
you should do Cloud Practitioner Foundational,
AI Practitioner Foundational,
then Solution Architect Associates,
Machine Learning Engineer Associates,
and then Machine Learning Specialty.
And you'll be good to go.
So that's it for your learning journey
on AWS certifications.
I hope you liked it and I will see you in the next lecture.